>> Scott Mos: Understanding and
implementing RAG systems.
Retrieval, augmented generation, it's
kinda like, when Angular One came out and
they had trans exclusion, or
what the hell was it called?
I forgot.
It's like, why are we calling it that?
That's kinda what RAG is.
It's like, I get it, but in reality it's
just like the AI doesn't know something.
So you have to go get it and,
well, let's take it a step.
Let's go before that.
If the, if you asked the AI about,
if you asked GPT 4 mini
about the scores of last night's NBA game,
would it know it?
Why would it not know it?
>> Jamie: It wasn't in the training
>> Scott Mos: it wasn't in the training
data, exactly.
So there's really two things it can do.
It can lie, which, well, I guess not lie,
cuz it doesn't know that it's lying.
It can say something, that you know,
if you just read the sentence,
grammatically makes sense,
but isn't actually factual.
If, you know, the creators of GT40 Money
put some guardrails in there,
it would reply back and say,
sorry, I don't know that, but
those are the only two
things you're gonna get.
It's gonna say, I don't know it, or it's
gonna say something that makes complete
sense in whatever language you ask it to
respond with, but actually isn't factual.
So how do you get past that?
Do you just have to like, I don't know,
is OpenAI updating their model every
single day and
you gotta go get the latest model?
Like how does that work?
No, it doesn't work that way because
training a model costs hundreds of
millions of dollars.
So that is not actually what's happening.
The other thing you might think of is
like, well, maybe I'm fine tuning it.
Which is similar to training, but it's
more like, fine tuning is like, you know,
you can take an airplane somewhere, and
then when you get there, you can take
an uber somewhere, and then for
the last mile, you can hop on a scooter.
That scooter is fine tuning.
It's just that last part,
but everything else
before that was the training that cost
hundreds of millions of dollars, right?
So you still aren't gonna fine
tune every single day either.
That would be annoying.
So you wouldn't wanna do that.
Costs a lot of money,
needs a lot of data, takes a lot of time.
So you wouldn't be doing
that every single day.
So how do you get the AI to know
something that it doesn't know?
Well, you can just tell it, right?
The best way you can tell
the AI is in the system prompt.
Whatever you put in the system prompt,
the AI will now have that reference.
So if I say, here's everything you need to
know about Jamie, here's how old he is,
here's where he works, here's his favorite
color, here's food that he likes,
it now knows that, right?
So, cool, if I want the AI to
know about anything related to,
you know, a game last night,
I can just put that information.
This is problem solved, great.
But what if I wanted to know about
this entire book series that I read?
And it's like, each book is a thousand
pages and there's ten books,
there's 10,000 pages,how
many tokens would that be?
10,000 pages every few
four letters is a token?
Yeah, I don't think it would
fit in the context window.
I would eventually run out and AI would
say, sorry, I have too many tokens.
I can't do this for you, even if you had
something that was like way massive and
it can fit a million tokens,
that would still cost you a lot of money.
Even if it could fit all the tokens,
you would be charged those tokens
every request that you send up.
Which, and
because you have all those tokens,
it's gonna be slower to get a response
back because it has to process all that.
And you have this problem of,
I forgot the actual name of it.
It's like, on the tip of my tongue.
But basically, if you have, like all this
information that you gave the AI, and
you ask it a question, and
the relevant information for
that question is in the middle of that
information, it's never gonna find it.
It's only really good at
finding information at, like,
the top and the end and not in the middle.
It kinda forgets.
So the more information you have,
the less likely it'll be able to give you
an answer over something in the middle.
So it's like, it's great that
we have these new models that
are coming out that are 128K tokens,
all these crazy token limits,
but we still got to pay a lot of money for
that every single time.
It's still gonna be slow, and the AI,
even though it has information, it's still
gonna forget because that's so much
information for it to remember, right?
So, RAG tries to solve that.
What RAG tries to do is it tries to find
the exact information that you need or
the AI needs to answer the question
that you asked and only that.
So it tries to find that, grab that
information, put it in, you know,
the response, the system prompt,
wherever you want to put it, and
then it answers it.
So you only have the bare minimum of
what you need to answer the question.
So one, it's faster as far as like
when it gets to the inference level,
it's cheaper because you're
sending up less tokens.
And because there is less information,
less tokens in the prompt,
it won't forget stuff because
it's not like a big text.
So it tries to solve all of that.
The problem is, RAG is really hard to do.
And I would say Evals might be the number
one problem right now with LLMs,
a very close second,
maybe even a tie is RAG.
Those are the two most challenging
problems people are trying to solve today.
You see a lot of companies trying to solve
this, a lot of people trying to solve
this, a lot of research scientists
trying to figure out a new RAG approach,
a new eval, a new RAG approach,
a new eval.
I would say that's 90% of what's happening
today and then obviously you have
the foundational people trying
to make it better at reasoning.
They're like,
how do we make this thing reason better?
How do we do more tokens
in the context window?
But everyone else is trying
to do these two things.